### Process Explanation

- Explanation provided is that in our inner ear we have two canals that can detect angular velocity. 
- Afferent neurons fire signals at regular or irregular rates and that is what we see in our data.
- When we take the motion of the head, inferences from experiments in animals can be transferred to the understanding of our data. 
- Due to parameter functions signals can “blow up”, since our transfer functions don’t accept signals at higher frequency, which is why a function is done to regulate the signals
- Time vector is built in so that there is a transfer function passed through an empty array. 
- Data is passed through the transfer function (LSIM functions) which is essentially mapping the functions across the columns.
- Two additional MATLAB Add-Ons are required: 
    -  FOMCOM fractional-order processing package must be included from add-ons page from MATLAB 
    -  Signal Processing package can be added during initial install. 
    -  Additional statistics or neural network libraries can be downloaded (optional)
- Linear relationships are being modeled between input motion and afferent responses.
- One important note about our data is that we should be looking for lag spikes between the different features, as this is an observed trend. 

### Data Overview

- Data consists of 12 columns:
    -  Columns 1–3: Interior Canal signals (X, Y, Z)
    -  Columns 4–6: Posterior Canal signals (X, Y, Z)
    -  Columns 7–12: Horizontal canal processed signals (X, Y, Z)
- Sampling rate: 2 milliseconds.
- The data is processed from MATLAB script.
- Simulated data will be provided for the hackathon, which will require us to run the Matlab script to output a .CSV or .JSON file.

### Action Items

- For the hackathon we are looking to simulate the models provided in the paper with the data which we will generate from MATLAB. 
- Overarching question is how can we correlate the model so that we can identify when there is a relationship between sensory information and motor output. 
- Regarding the script and software engineering side of the project, students will work collaboratively so that this isn’t just a Jupyter notebook file, but a full package so code can be run in parallel and reproducible. 
- To help with this, after our meeting Chris should be sending us a M file which contains the MATLAB code in addition to some generated data which can be fed into the model.
- Patrick will share over some key slides from his lectures, as well as any additional YouTube videos or explanations that provide additional context. 
- Review Github repository and ensure privileges are in place to prevent access issues. 
- Meeting original scheduled for Tuesday next week has been moved to Wednesday at 1pm PST.
